# Twitter-Sentiment-Analysis
A project about implementing EDA and basic Machine Learning Algorithms to do Twitter Sentiment Analysis. <br>
The purpose of this project is to compute the sentiment of text information - in the case, tweets posted in 2015 regarding US airlines - and answer the research question: “What can public opinion on Twitter tell us about the US airlines in 2015?” The goal is to essentially use sentiment analysis on Twitter data to get insight into the people’s opinions on US airlines. <br>
Two datasets are given. The *generic_tweets.txt* file contains tweets that have had their sentiments already analyzed and recorded as binary values 0 (negative) and 4 (positive). Each line is a single tweet, which may contain multiple sentences despite their brevity. There are 6 columns in this dataset: class, id, date, query, user, text. The second data set, *US_airline_tweets.csv*, contains a list of tweets regarding several US airlines. <br>
The whole project includes several steps: **data cleaning, exploratory analysis, model preparation, model implementation, and basic discussion**. <br>
In data cleaning step, all html tags and attributes (i.e., /<[^>]+>/) are removed; html character codes (i.e., &...;) are replaced with an ASCII equivalent; all URLs are removed; all characters in the text are in lowercase; all stopwords are removed.<br>
Before training a model, text features are constructed using Bag-of-Words and TF-IDF models, I also tried the n-grams methods such as unigram, bigram, trigram, and the targets are the sentiment of each tweets. **Logistic regression** was mainly used, I also tried **Random Forest**, **SVM**, **Naive Bayes** algorithms to compare different results.<br>
Last but not least, the targets were binary, but I also converted the binary targets to multi-class by treating the negative reasons as the targets.
